## Overview

| Developed by | Tryolabs |
| --- | --- |
| Date of development | Feb 15, 2024 |
| Validator type | Format |
| Blog | - |
| License | Apache 2 |
| Input/Output | Output |

## Description
This validator checks if a text is related with a topic.

## Requirements

* Dependencies:
	- guardrails-ai>=0.4.0
    - tenacity>=8.1.0
    - transformers>=4.11.3
    - torch>=2.1.1

* Foundation model access keys:
	- OPENAI_API_KEY

# Installation

```bash
guardrails hub install hub://tryolabs/restricttotopic
```

# Usage Examples

## Validating string output via Python

In this example, we apply the validator to a string output generated by an LLM.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from guardrails.hub import RestrictToTopic
from guardrails import Guard

# Setup Guard
guard = Guard().use(
    RestrictToTopic(
        valid_topics=["sports"],
        invalid_topics=["music"],
        disable_classifier=True,
        disable_llm=False,
        on_fail="exception"
    )
)

guard.validate("""
In Super Bowl LVII in 2023, the Chiefs clashed with the Philadelphia Eagles in a fiercely contested battle, ultimately emerging victorious with a score of 38-35.
""")  # Validator passes

guard.validate("""
The Beatles were a charismatic English pop-rock band of the 1960s.
""")  # Validator fails
```

## Validating JSON output via Python

In this example, we apply the validator to a string field of a JSON output generated by an LLM.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field
from guardrails.hub import RestrictToTopic
from guardrails import Guard

# Initialize Validator
val = RestrictToTopic(
    valid_topics=["sports"],
    disable_classifier=True,
    disable_llm=False,
    on_fail="exception"
)

# Create Pydantic BaseModel
class TopicSummary(BaseModel):
		topic: str
		summary: str = Field(validators=[val])

# Create a Guard to check for valid Pydantic output
guard = Guard.from_pydantic(output_class=TopicSummary)

# Run LLM output generating JSON through guard
guard.parse("""
{
	"topic": "Super Bowl LVII",
	"summary": "In Super Bowl LVII in 2023, the Chiefs clashed with the Philadelphia Eagles in a fiercely contested battle, ultimately emerging victorious with a score of 38-35."
}
""")
```

# API Reference

**`__init__(self, on_fail="noop")`**
<ul>
Initializes a new instance of the RestrictToTopic class.

**Parameters**
- **`valid_topics`** *(List[str])*: topics that the text should be about (one or many).
- **`invalid_topics`** *(List[str])*: topics that the text cannot be about. Defaults to `[]`.
- **`device`** *(int)*: Device ordinal for CPU/GPU supports for Zero-Shot classifier. Setting this to -1 will leverage CPU, a positive will run the Zero-Shot model on the associated CUDA device id. Defaults to `-1`.
- **`model`** *(str)*: The Zero-Shot model that will be used to classify the topic. See a list of all models here: https://huggingface.co/models?pipeline_tag=zero-shot-classification. Defaults to `facebook/bart-large-mnli`.
- **`llm_callable`** *(Union[str, Callable, None])*: Either the name of the OpenAI model, or a callable that takes a prompt and returns a response. Defaults to `gpt-3.5-turbo`.
- **`disable_classifier`** *(bool)*: Controls whether to use the Zero-Shot model. At least one of `disable_classifier` and `disable_llm` must be `False`. Defaults to `False`.
- **`disable_llm`** *(bool)*: Controls whether to use the LLM fallback. At least one of `disable_classifier` and `disable_llm` must be `False`. Defaults to `False`.
- **`model_threshold`** *(float)*: The threshold used to determine whether to accept a topic from the Zero-Shot model. Must be a number between `0` and `1`. Defaults to `0.5`.
- **`on_fail`** *(str, Callable)*: The policy to enact when a validator fails.  If `str`, must be one of `reask`, `fix`, `filter`, `refrain`, `noop`, `exception` or `fix_reask`. Otherwise, must be a function that is called when the validator fails.
</ul>
<br/>

**`validate(self, value, metadata) → ValidationResult`**
<ul>
Validates the given `value` using the rules defined in this validator, relying on the `metadata` provided to customize the validation process. This method is automatically invoked by `guard.parse(...)`, ensuring the validation logic is applied to the input data.

Note:

1. This method should not be called directly by the user. Instead, invoke `guard.parse(...)` where this method will be called internally for each associated Validator.
2. When invoking `guard.parse(...)`, ensure to pass the appropriate `metadata` dictionary that includes keys and values required by this validator. If `guard` is associated with multiple validators, combine all necessary metadata into a single dictionary.

**Parameters**
- **`value`** *(Any):* The input value to validate.
- **`metadata`** *(dict):* A dictionary containing metadata required for validation. No additional metadata keys are needed for this validator.
</ul>
